# 1p analysis lab

1P and 2P Analysis: Students will receive a brief overview of available open-source calcium imaging processing packages (CaImAn, Suite2P, SIMA) and their dis/advantages. The main steps of calcium imaging processing (data preprocessing, motion correction, signal extraction, spike deconvolution, PCA/ICA and CNMF/-E component detection methods) will be explained first in theory (1h), before students will be guided through the analysis of their own acquired imaging data (3h; if unavailable, we will provide demo datasets). A larger part of the theory will be communicated in the 1P analysis part and a wrap-up will be given in the 2P data analysis part. For both sessions, the data will be preprocessed in advance so that the spatial and temporal resolution suits the available computer hardware and the students can start directly with the hands-on part. Parameters for successful motion correction, signal extraction and spike deconvolution will be discussed. In the hands-on part we will use an open-source software stack (Python 3.8 running on Jupyter Notebooks) that allows reproducible code execution and visualization. After the introduction to the theory and the used software packages, the students will work on their hands-on assignment individually or in small groups. Teaching assistants will be available to help with individual questions. After the assignments, each group gives a short (3-5 minute) presentation of their results, followed by a short (2 minute) feedback and Q&A part involving the teachers and the rest of the students. The session concludes with a wrapup of the most important material by the teachers, where the most important take-away messages will be repeated and, if time permits, an outlook on the current development of novel analysis methods (e.g. using deep learning) is given. Learning objectives: methods for motion correction, signal extraction and spike deconvolution of calcium signals; simple visualization of calcium signals.

